# Portfolio READ ME
This is for the final project for BIO 316, with specific functions and data applied. I am Patrick Spillane, I am a student at Stonehill College and am currently going to be starting my senior year next fall. 
This portfolio contains many homework assignments that I had done for the "R Programming for Biologists" class I took in the summer of 2023 and one of them is a large Function Tutorial project. This project went over three functions that I chose, how they work, and possible uses for them. These three functions were fishualize::fish, a hexadecimal code creator which depended on the scientific name of the species of fish that was selected, fishualize::fishualize, a similar function which instead gave a range of colors that appear on the selected species of fish selected. And fishbc::fbc_common_name, which tells the common name of fish species selected in a database of species of fish that live in British Columbia, these fish are selected by three letter codenames in the fishbc database. 
There are also several homework assignments that show off my experience in R.
Week 1 (Spillane_Week1.R): This assignment was to get a good grasp of R and doing basic tasks such as describing certain functions and converting pounds to kilograms.
Week 2 (Spillane_Week2.R): This homework assignment has several parts. The first section was to convert numbers into the corresponding letters to spell out my last name. The second part of it was subsetting data from the palmerpenguins data set to only show certain parts of said data, such as sex and species.
Week 5 (Spillane_Week5_BIO316.Rmd): This homework assignment was all about creating a ggplot surrounding certain data sets in palmerpenguins and running AIC tests to see if certain factors affect flipper length of penguins. Namely, trying to determine if being on different islands affect the flipper lengths of penguins of differing sex and species. 
Week 6 (Spillane_Week_6_316.Rmd): This assignment was similar to week 5 however it was more for customization of ggplots. For example, it very much is about customizing the violin plot colors into custom colors by typing in the hexadecimal color codes. Another section is using cowplot to combine two different graphs into one larger plot, and finding out the most appealing way to do so, by comparing how many columns and or rows should be included.
Week 7 (Patrick Spillane Homework 7 316.Rmd): This assignment for R Programming for Biologists was about using conditionals for certain functions and equations, for example making so that if the resulting temperature is less than 18, a comment about suggesting bringing a jacket will appear. If the temperature is above 23 degrees Celsius, it will recommend wearing shorts because it will be hot out. For temperatures between 18-23 degrees Celsius, it recommneds to not bring a jacket or wear shorts for the weather will be moderate.
Week 8 (Spillane_Week_8_BIO_316_71923) This assignment was for creating your own custom function, more specifically creating a function that converts degrees in Fahrenheit into Celsius. It allows us to practice the use of the function argument as well as the return argument. Both of these allow for us to really be able to see the inner mechanisms of many of the functions that we used throughout the course, as well as many functions that are used throughout the internet through the use of the R Programming Language.
